Gwenevere Abriel: I'm opening up my eyes will be kind of off.
Gwenevere Abriel: To the side here for a minute.
Gwenevere Abriel: Any changes that work for you or
Gwenevere Abriel: work hours the same
Gwenevere Abriel: That's nice. I'm happy for you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Mm hmm.
Gwenevere Abriel: Anyone in your family, you know, experiencing any challenges with health or your everybody's kind of stay in. Okay.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Glad to hear that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let me just see. We need to
Gwenevere Abriel: We need to take a peek at goals do a review and let's take just a moment at least make a little statement about, well, this one set for, you know, December, but we can still make a little comment about it. Find a good place to live.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because it's about savings. So just a little comment on how you assess how you're doing around saving
Shaun W.: I will do. I bought a car. No.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So it's been a little bit since you bought that car. Are you noticing more money seems to continue after you bought it. Just keep having to pay for things somehow with the car.
Shaun W.: No, I run good. No, that's more than just putting things into, like, you know, you get a new card.
Shaun W.: There's like little things like, oh, I don't have my phone with Bluetooth to my radio. So I got one of those little radio very good to see you. Radio
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so that's what I was saying was whether money was still going to the car and it sounds like is
Shaun W.: Yeah, we gotta buy new tires.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, you said
Gwenevere Abriel: need new new tires and something about the windows.
Shaun W.: Yeah, typically. Oh.
Gwenevere Abriel: new tires and need to 10 windows.
Gwenevere Abriel: What is, what is the tinted window do. Is that because it's like a case the sign out
Shaun W.: So not use a cooler.
Shaun W.: Live in a bit more, you know, remember I know
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes, hot steering wheel seats get hot.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. Um, I will then. So what you're saying is, this is the priority is really getting this car just the way you want it. How far away financially just maybe a rough estimate how far away, do you think you are from monetarily from getting just where you want it.
Shaun W.: For about three $4
Okay.
Shaun W.: So far it's a really good car, except for that overkill. The oil. They claim that lead ID. I missed
Shaun W.: Kelsey, they keep you around here working on it and all boiling it although I didn't
Shaun W.: Give me my money back, love, love, love is patient
Shaun W.: That's, you know, that's what kept crossing my mind. I don't get my money back. I'm going to go over there and blow up his shop. That's what I kept thinking, Man, this guy. Very good. I thought. See, that's what got me in prison.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Shaun W.: I think I was thinking about you and I'm thinking that I was thinking, Man, this guy, don't get my money back. I'm are going on lowish it up a story.
Gwenevere Abriel: So right at the that point so you thought of me and what might I have said if I was a little voice in your head. What might I have said.
Shaun W.: No, I just, I just thought, I gotta go back to prison. I hate to tell her about what I was thinking.
Shaun W.: I was really thinking I'm gonna go do that. Like, that's for sure. I'm dead guys get a piece of it. Okay.
Shaun W.: But then I thought, I kind of stopped this violent behavior just behavioral thinking that, but still fortunate dollars home. I was just let that go.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so do you really want to see what the rest. And this is just an imagination, but you kind of want to know how the rest of the world thinks about it.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm the only person in the room. So do you want to know another way to think about it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah okay I my ears are really bad. Today, my last morning it's it's so bad that I can't. I can hardly even talk. So I'm terribly sorry
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so let's walk it back.
Gwenevere Abriel: I know you're going to want to respond to this part right away.
Gwenevere Abriel: But the experiment, the behavioral experiment is sitting with the discomfort of this idea being out there for even five seconds. So I'm just going to do this.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so I'm going to say it, and then you and I are going to sit, because I hate it to what I'm about to say.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm with you. I hate it. So,
Gwenevere Abriel: You can do one for me.
Gwenevere Abriel: I will both do one. I'm not perfect. I make mistakes.
Gwenevere Abriel: You made a mistake.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: You didn't know
Gwenevere Abriel: The differences if you were more comfortable with that, like you're not less of a man. You're not less of an intelligent man. You're not less of a person, you don't less intelligent
Gwenevere Abriel: He didn't know what you hadn't learned. You think I or 100,000 other people wouldn't do that oil exactly the same way with what we knew
Gwenevere Abriel: I had a 78 Subaru I did what a 78 I would do with a 78 Subaru. I'm going to do with another car I did what I've learned. How can I possibly be responsible for something I haven't learned yet.
Gwenevere Abriel: But not you
Gwenevere Abriel: You're the exception.
Gwenevere Abriel: Your standard for yourself is unachievable
Gwenevere Abriel: And it's cruel this expectation, you have for yourself. And so when I say, how would someone like me.
Gwenevere Abriel: How would someone else that doesn't automatically because you have all your whole lifetime has been
Gwenevere Abriel: Survival in a violent environment, not just president, it's you're homeless.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, really bad. So I don't I don't look at you like there's something wrong. I look at it like you don't have this rehearsal of this this way of thinking, which is in a different family system, you would have been raised with with this.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh shit, I'm fucking idiot.
Gwenevere Abriel: Guys, look. What a fool. Last thing I just did.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, you don't have that and they will go oh my god I did like I did like that with with the blah, blah, blah. And we let each other off the hook.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then we go oh shit that's going to be an expensive mistake.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then we facilitate
Gwenevere Abriel: The intolerance for imperfection. My guess is, I don't know if you were in group and I think I might want to bring that article up if you didn't see this. It doesn't take too long to read, um,
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, not know this has to do with perfectionism. This has to do is how we value ourselves that if I'm not right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because notice with with this whole oil thing in the car. It's a beautiful example.
Gwenevere Abriel: Of how intolerable. It was for you. I'm imagining to the thing kind of wrong.
Gwenevere Abriel: Like it was so intolerable. You didn't sit with it, like, not for the five seconds. But you'd be willing to take someone's property and life played all the way out. Just that's how intolerable and I respect that. Because it can feel life threatening to you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, and I get that.
Gwenevere Abriel: But there's a way out. There's another way
Gwenevere Abriel: Can you imagine that years down the line, you're in prison. You're sitting there in jail. And what was it 1500 dollars or whatever the amount was and you added it up, and you're like 1500 dollars. Are you kidding.
Shaun W.: Yeah, why did I do that.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm like, I don't know how much that is a month. Really, I gotta kill this guy for this dumb ass shit. I can't just say I'm a fucking idiot. I can't just say I'm a fucking idiot. What an idiot.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hey,
Gwenevere Abriel: What Sean
Gwenevere Abriel: How are you doing now. I'm sitting here and I'm doing something probably kind of weird, like you're sitting with the discomfort and you're okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: These are skills that were not taught to you.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I'm sorry that happened, and it's too late. We can do them. It just means that in here in this therapeutic relationship when you notice this, like I
Gwenevere Abriel: Ah, that one catch it.
Gwenevere Abriel: On it as quick as you can.
Gwenevere Abriel: I was late. I was, I don't know what your things are going to be. But when you catch one where you realize, hey, I made a mistake after. Let me check something out trying to catch them as quickly as you can name them.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you can say, this feels really uncomfortable. I really just, I really just want to log off. I just want to talk to you. You know that that would be in the moment you sitting with the discomfort of not being perfect. One more piece.
Gwenevere Abriel: The reason why it can feel so life threatening.
Gwenevere Abriel: For someone like you with that particular upbringing.
Gwenevere Abriel: Your value in your family.
Gwenevere Abriel: Was diminished when you were wrong.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm not saying that that's the truth, the way the universe works. I'm saying in your family.
Gwenevere Abriel: You could have gotten hurt hit not gotten privilege. If you were wrong.
Gwenevere Abriel: And so it's developed. I've got to be right, I've got to be. I have to be right.
Gwenevere Abriel: My Ass Kicked or something else really bad happens, we confuse our value with having accurate data. What does that got to do with it. I don't know, a shift on a stuff doesn't make me a bad person. I'm still a valuable person. I just have a lot to learn.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so I'm going to shut up now.
Gwenevere Abriel: I want to know what you're thinking about what's happening well
Shaun W.: I just, I just thought to have right away. My mind went to violence, like right away. I wanted to go. I thought
Shaun W.: It took a long time to see that money. I thought I should split the car works fine. There's inside. He drained the oil. It runs good like nothing
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Shaun W.: But read the first thought that came to my mind was like he's not getting Elena. And I started thinking about to risk my life. He just over 1400 dollars because I don't want to let him get away with it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, that's the, that's what trips you up. A lot of times it's
Gwenevere Abriel: A silica. See the sticky.
Shaun W.: For
Gwenevere Abriel: This is it. Simply put, but it's a hard concept. So let me play it out. It's when people are using emotional reasoning. Do not infer intense so
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's say my hand is someone I'm talking to. Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hmm.
Gwenevere Abriel: I feel
Gwenevere Abriel: Stupid.
Gwenevere Abriel: So watch emotional reasoning. If I feel small. If I feel angry. The inference is
Gwenevere Abriel: Emotional reasoning. If I feel something, then your intent must be true. In other words, I'm working backwards. I'm saying, well, it's my feeling so most people do. They're like, Well, I was hurt so and you made me hurt and you're an asshole. That's how most people work, you know,
Gwenevere Abriel: I've done it. You've done it. We've all done it. So we've do this thing. So it takes really being aware that we're just using emotion, if I'm feeling
Gwenevere Abriel: Scared. Like, I can't gather up another 1400 dollars anytime soon. I feel threat. I'm in danger. I'm feeling it. So they're threatening me must be real.
Gwenevere Abriel: But when you put time in between here and there. Do you want to talk to your mom first
Shaun W.: Laws. My niece. She put a mouse going
Shaun W.: That's, I don't want to look at it is
Gwenevere Abriel: OK, telling you doing something in your
Shaun W.: Sheila. She was wonderful. She put a mask on.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's cute. So this is a hard concept. Notice when you're looking at the words that structured like you know normally think of it like, do not infer intent from outcome. So
Gwenevere Abriel: Normally what we do, is we're only aware of how we're feeling right we feel angry. We will threaten likes he's about to take my resource which is my car, my money. I don't have a lot of it. So there's a sense of threat.
Gwenevere Abriel: We assign that he's threatening it, but we haven't taken the time to find out if there's more information. So what you really need is just some time in here. So no matter what.
Gwenevere Abriel: That breathing not making a decision is your best friend.
Shaun W.: Right.
Shaun W.: I learned a thing before I speak. That's the best thing to do to always keep on what you're going to see to see. I know smart people are intelligent people they don't answer questions right away they wait a second.
Shaun W.: Family was trying to teach you to count to five for answer.
Shaun W.: counterparty three answer.
But
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's take this concept a little further. What about when someone calls you, I'm
Gwenevere Abriel: calls you a name.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, you know, right.
Gwenevere Abriel: there ever been times when someone's called you a name and you really just
Gwenevere Abriel: This is a full and so it doesn't matter what's coming out of their mouth and it didn't bother you.
Shaun W.: Well know those guys work is. Matter of fact, that's long we got fired. But he, uh, he said something about punky like directed at me and I said,
Shaun W.: I said, Hey, let me move forward to talking to you. Like I said, I said little friends will talk to brands like that he's old man, you're not in prison were just chill out. I saw care. You don't talk to me.
Shaun W.: So we're going to be getting a fight.
Shaun W.: And ever since then, we haven't called me a copy of punk like you'd like directly to like a little comic
Shaun W.: Books.
Shaun W.: That he was all telling me you're not a reason why that's my staff here, right. I'm not in prison was I kind of blew it off because if I was out had to fight that guy. He did you don't have the fire.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, because you didn't have power down position and you can afford that. I get that.
Shaun W.: disrespecting me. And if you walk away. They do the job. So that's one thing. A prison if you don't fight, they're gonna conjunct you have run you out. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Out here.
Gwenevere Abriel: Strength looks like this.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's just poise, isn't it, it's the stoic
Gwenevere Abriel: Is being able to sit
Gwenevere Abriel: In quiet and not react quickly right it's different out here. It's NOTICE HOW YOU SAID THOSE intelligent people how they just sit there thinking
Gwenevere Abriel: And then they come up with some cool thing to say. How do they do that.
Gwenevere Abriel: They create time they inhibit the impulse and for you if you like those five seconds. Your mom suggested, go for it. If you like the belly breathing. Go for it. But both of them give you time
Gwenevere Abriel: You need that time to think with this part frontal part of the brain that's the thinker part that's, you know, when you think
Gwenevere Abriel: I remember yesterday, I did this thing, or I remember 20 years ago I did this thing. That's the thinker part of the part of the brain that thinks about it's thinking
Gwenevere Abriel: That makes us human. My dog doesn't think about it's thinking doesn't think what was I thinking about my dirty, but it doesn't do that. It doesn't think about it, thinking it just goes a. Oh, look at that. Hey, look at this. It just looks
Shaun W.: You want me to you in this situation that's going on my life right now. Check this out.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Shaun W.: Here's a bowl years ago when I was in prison. It's kind of a little story was years ago when I was in prison. I had a CEO picking up a bunch of eat for me and drop it off in prison. Right.
Shaun W.: My friend, one of my best friends. I picked up a half pound of weed and then I sent my friend have much money he takes off with the money disconnects his phone. He thinks I'm never getting on prison. You know, I was accused those murders.
Shaun W.: Well,
Shaun W.: I get out and I asked him. I asked him, I said, Hey, where's that money and vibrant already ran off with, and he's all I didn't run on no money. He was only when they pick it up. So I thought, Okay, I'm gonna fuck his wife, I thought. All right.
Shaun W.: So I ended up packing his wife and we end up falling in love and moving in together.
Shaun W.: Okay, and then
Shaun W.: Know, watch. So check this out. Hold on, he gets all the beds. He's a federal prison he gets out the feds and he's telling me hey don't dispute over to a chick. He's telling me you know and then
Shaun W.: I end up leaving her for she'll be back with the with the kids. And I mean, so I told her. Hey, it's over. You don't mean she goes back to him, or he messes it up. He runs off.
Shaun W.: Well, now she just came back. Yeah, the CNN years she just came back the other day from Haiti. Now, and the body son now they want me to. He wants me to go over there.
Shaun W.: Cuz I know it's on do is you know i mean
Shaun W.: He just called me. I know it's kind of a bad situation. And I'm thinking, I don't know. You want to get
Shaun W.: I shouldn't do it. But I thought you don't have a penis to backfill with Tim, are not about money.
Shaun W.: And I could have kept me
Gwenevere Abriel: So are you using the criminal logic thinking
Gwenevere Abriel: Right. With that, is that just going to be forever I execute revenge. And then he will probably and then I'll get to do mine and then she'll get to do, or is it going to be forever revenge revenge revenge revenge revenge. Oh.
Shaun W.: It's all I told. Oh, sorry. What I did, and I'm
Shaun W.: Sorry if I first started out, I was sitting, get it back in, in
Shaun W.: The nightmare.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so that I'm sorry, that's an interesting one, that that's new for me.
Tell me about what you
Gwenevere Abriel: Tell me about the I'm sorry to your friend because you could have held on to criminal logic thinking would be, you know, screw this guy. I'm in it for the long revenge.
Shaun W.: I just couldn't believe you did that to me. I was like, wow, you're fighting for my life. And this guy. We had you're picking up all kinds of weird, I had a half how the bloody myself at one time in myself.
Gwenevere Abriel: Anyway, Sean.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're telling me.
You can't
Gwenevere Abriel: You can't try on the thought Sean don't need the 500 I do
Gwenevere Abriel: You tell me you can't try that on like
Shaun W.: I don't, but I can eat. Yeah, where
Gwenevere Abriel: Are in custody time right he's thinking this guy don't need it.
Shaun W.: That's all same 500. That's a lot of money and policy.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, OK. OK, so maybe he was thinking
Gwenevere Abriel: I can get away with it. It's not a big deal. So this phone disappeared.
Shaun W.: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: I guess my point is
Gwenevere Abriel: This is where the skill of empathy would come in. That's where it because earlier saying I can't figure out why this guy would do it. Yeah, she can you come up with 10 different reasons why he would do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: His Nana needed some kind of surgery down payment up and that's just off the cuff. We can all come up with something
Gwenevere Abriel: And it was, what's this showing guy. I don't want you know man. I care about my Nana and did it in there, a decision was made. Now, did it affect you. Now watch
Gwenevere Abriel: That can be happening right then, this guy's trying to piss me off. He's disrespecting me we infer his intent from how you feel you feel disrespected
Gwenevere Abriel: So we assign intent to someone you don't disrespect you don't respect me. But that's coming from your head, your creative head. That doesn't mean it's true.
Gwenevere Abriel: You, you may actually respect people that you because you have this particular pattern of a way of speaking that you've cultivated over the years.
Gwenevere Abriel: You may end up offending people when it wasn't your intention to
Gwenevere Abriel: So it works the other way to you might get accused of bad Melissa sent intention when really
Gwenevere Abriel: They just felt a negative emotion, but your intention was to be like What's up, but you may have a way of a turn of a phrase or something about an effect.
Gwenevere Abriel: That is uniquely yours, and it just, it just offend somebody, but it doesn't mean that was your intention. So that's what empathy allows it allows this. That's what makes us
Gwenevere Abriel: social creatures and we've got to be able to have this where we're constantly moving and flowing with
Gwenevere Abriel: Wonder what that would feel like in their shoes. And then you come back to the self and you go and how I feel. What does. That's how he's feeling. That's what empathy is it moves like this.
Gwenevere Abriel: How did it make this other person feel how am I my mother feel how my, my daughter feel how my, my son feel if I was in their shoes and you constantly are kind of moving back and forth like this in your mind.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you can do that with the guy with the car shop to
Gwenevere Abriel: What is a possible assumption that you're assigning him that was negative, that really, he's trying to sell a car right he's, he got a reasonable amount of money and and and that was maybe his intention and maybe
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe there's a miss, understanding, literally, miss. Like if
Shaun W.: This room is broken.
Gwenevere Abriel: There was also, guess what, there was a miss, understand if you didn't know about the oil that is a miss understanding
Gwenevere Abriel: That's all. And if we create time and watch empathy. If instead you assume what if you assumed a positive intention.
Gwenevere Abriel: Like I'm sure this guy means well I'll because watch what happens if I assume a positive intention of a person.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm going to, I'm going to be more open my brains going to work better. I'm going to be able to remember some more open ways of communicating. Am I continue asking questions like,
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you know I noticed this car. It's this visit it up, and this is these are the standard things that I do for for upkeep on it.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's been a minute since I've had a car. Is that basically what people do. I might have been able to say something like that, if I'm feeling kind of chill and not defensive. But if I'm defensive and I have to be right and smart and the best. I ain't saying shit.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm not going to look dumb.
Gwenevere Abriel: There's a lot
Shaun W.: Of time zone where there's times sounds on the ski slopes. The group, but I don't
Shaun W.: And then I thought when I made the comment about a teacher here. I thought it was funny, but I shouldn't I shouldn't do that guy should because I was just, I didn't, I didn't try to like this perspective. I started
Here with all crazy
Gwenevere Abriel: So wait, maybe you had a little moment where if you are the recipient, let's use that. Notice that I didn't continue it right. I didn't
Gwenevere Abriel: Say yellow got some clarity looking hair. I didn't continue it because, well, wait. Now, why are you bringing it up now. Did you go into imagining what it would feel like to have someone comment on a bad hair day or
Shaun W.: No, I thought about it like, awkward. I thought
Shaun W.: Maybe what if that's nice. I don't know.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, maybe he likes his hair that way. Maybe this is best hair day. We don't know.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: So that you're close you're close to it. Not that he's a sensitive guy but empathy would look like, what if empathy would look
Shaun W.: Look like either. I know the feeling that I'm trying to express
Gwenevere Abriel: What my. So try it on right now. How am I going to have felt when you commented on his hair. Try it on for a second.
Shaun W.: I don't know him. That's why maybe he would allow thought was funny.
Gwenevere Abriel: But Sean I'm doing an exercise with you didn't quite do it in jump in. You want to do it right on what it would feel like.
Gwenevere Abriel: If you had made a comment about hair just try it on for a second. It'll only take about three seconds. Just try it on what it would feel like to have someone make a comment unwanted unsolicited comment about your hair.
Shaun W.: Yeah they do it all the time because I'm bald not
Gwenevere Abriel: You're not doing it right now you're avoiding an empathic response, you're scrambling around. I'm not unlike
Shaun W.: What what I'm seeing is that people have done it all the time. People are not doing it, you're still not doing it now you're using humor.
Gwenevere Abriel: Try it on. If you are a teacher and you cared. Right. What's another there's 100 million different responses, but try one on notice how you brought it up how my he have felt just trade on per second.
Shaun W.: That's what I'm saying. I don't know how you don't know
Gwenevere Abriel: You don't have to. We're human. We have a special sort of set pre programmed range of emotions with
Shaun W.: What what he could have thought that was funny.
Gwenevere Abriel: Your social. And just so you know you are avoiding it and you you're an intelligent man and you can do it the whole time.
Gwenevere Abriel: You walk into it.
Gwenevere Abriel: But the lesson will come and you sit in his shoes. Watch, just go there for a second.
Gwenevere Abriel: Go there for a second, how he felt and come right back to you. Just for a second. How could he have felt
Shaun W.: Like oh my keys on the spotlight. Goodbye.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay so feeling words. That's nice. You worked really hard just now, Sean. How about I'm
Gwenevere Abriel: Small embarrassed.
Shaun W.: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Kind of ashamed, almost like maybe I should have spent more time. I just kind of showed up doing my thing. I'm glad I'm here. He works a night shift right so this is this is the end of his shift.
Gwenevere Abriel: So what you don't know that. So that's the point is that's where time comes in. And notice how you brought I didn't bring any I didn't bring up a tape today.
Gwenevere Abriel: You did so something. Yes. So Sean nicely done. You did it. We don't have to know the person's story because you are a human, you have something in common.
Gwenevere Abriel: And that is, you have emotions. We have some fundamental emotions. We have anger everyone on this planet, probably has some familiarity with that one doesn't matter what religion you got
Gwenevere Abriel: We have this concept of
Gwenevere Abriel: Attraction and love like we have this moving toward
Gwenevere Abriel: It's either they're running right is there is not their narratives, so it ain't there. Now I gotta go.
Gwenevere Abriel: We go right
Gwenevere Abriel: We know we know this. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: We don't have to say.
Gwenevere Abriel: You sell it pops out around the corner with a big old sound good or hard hands come up. We don't have to think, hey remember hands to come up and protest protect your internal organs. We don't have to remember that we just right.
Shaun W.: Is it is it crazy that they see your mind before I even moved this finger, my mind is like 13 milliseconds or something before I move this my brain says the Buddhist finger my I'm already going to do it like my brain knows
Gwenevere Abriel: Your fingers telling your brain movements.
Shaun W.: No, no, no, no. What I think is
Shaun W.: Not is not weird though before I even tell it to move. It's already going to move it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Shaun W.: It's almost like you something else running me like it already knows what I'm gonna say
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, it is. You remember I was talking about the thinking brain.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, yeah. So guess what here wrap your head around this one and then we're going to go back to a tee as uncomfortable as that is
Gwenevere Abriel: How do you know you are the one thinking what part of you. Does the thinking, How do you know what's you versus. Wait a minute. Is this thing, this is me right now.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's the ability to reflect back over itself to know itself. And that's why I was saying, What's unique about us humans is we can
Gwenevere Abriel: We can be obsessive we can be neurotic. Well, lucky us
Gwenevere Abriel: But it means we have access to this spirituality. If we right well now I want answers. Now I'm thinking about thinking, well, now I know. Maybe I'll die and then what okay so lots of big things happen with this concept of being able to think about itself animals don't do that.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's go back to a tee. You don't have to know a tick story. I don't have to know any y'all stories. I'm not going to talk about what you're wearing
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm not going to talk about things that are are sort of preferences. Let's say your style. I might talk about, um, let's everyone remove hat. Let's everyone
Gwenevere Abriel: Remove sunglasses. Let's everyone not in just mood altering substances, because let's treat this all it's all agree that this is going to be
Gwenevere Abriel: A setting to be taken seriously, much like an office, let's all agree to those norms start right not wrong, but let's all agree on them that way. There's no question. We can all sort of be here and try to connect as best we can, through this telemedicine stuff. Um,
Shaun W.: I used to go to that wall stealth and it wouldn't let me take off when
Shaun W.: You click a link to it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's talk about it take for a minute. Notice, or you wanted. You wanted to know, well I don't know his story. But really, is that what it takes, or are there some norms, where you might say, well,
Shaun W.: I don't know, maybe I will maybe I will
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe right maybe
Gwenevere Abriel: And maybe not. But the question has to do with this sort of social piece which is now i don't really typically crack a joke with someone, unless I have this earned
Gwenevere Abriel: Trust. So yeah, trying to say.
Shaun W.: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah we earn it.
Shaun W.: Because you learned, don't do that. If you don't know somebody you don't really joke with my people.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: That that's that's you caught it. You catch yourself in the right bottom I thought about it after add
Shaun W.: Maybe I shouldn't
Shaun W.: But I got that girl that was all sad that are brother died, she was laughing She's here.
Shaun W.: She got her to smile.
Shaun W.: Better day
Gwenevere Abriel: Um,
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't know.
Shaun W.: Yeah, she smiles. What else could start laughing
Shaun W.: I thought that I thought, well, that's cool. She's having a really bad day.
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe
Shaun W.: Maybe it was a nervous look on somebody else's expense.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. Nicely done. That's what you need.
Shaun W.: That's the park it
Gwenevere Abriel: Out here is going to serve you.
Gwenevere Abriel: And all you need is time and time millisecond.
Gwenevere Abriel: Take a deep breath and look how much so much goes on and those, like you said, like
Gwenevere Abriel: Right. Be thinking about this finger moving. I already had the thought I'm going to be including that in. Think about the finger moving
Gwenevere Abriel: I had already kind of been I had that in my mind that this is going to be part of it. My hands already up here. I'm going to be doing this so so much goes on in those milliseconds. If you create it with
Gwenevere Abriel: A breath before you respond and counting. If you want to add that love it about every anger management program that's out there is going to have you count to 10. So who am I to change it. Go for it. Do your counting
Gwenevere Abriel: I like the breathing, because I like the physiological changes that it does.
Shaun W.: But what do you do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, you need time
Gwenevere Abriel: Time to inhibit the initial impulse doesn't make you broken or wrong, and it might end up being that your first impulse was spot on.
Gwenevere Abriel: But you get time
Gwenevere Abriel: Media to teak really likes is Harry might get offended if there was time
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe this woman that giggled was giggling because she was nervous and really
Gwenevere Abriel: She doesn't feel better, but she's embarrassed herself for a teak. We don't know what the giggle is I never checked it out and check out a tweaked and check out YouTube and check out girl. Look what time does
Gwenevere Abriel: We get to think about a couple other different versions of our initial impulse. So you create that time you can create it by getting in the habit of 345 you know just sort of
Gwenevere Abriel: This doing the breathing counting to 10 five, whatever works for you, let your mind work.
Gwenevere Abriel: I want you to have this also.
Gwenevere Abriel: You are not expected to know things you haven't learned
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're going to make mistakes like the rest of us. It doesn't diminish your value.
Shaun W.: Yesterday, my field called Little you
Gwenevere Abriel: Know, I want to hear.
Shaun W.: My field called me yesterday during the group and I answered it. We had a nice chat. Real quick, definitely send back on. Yeah. Tony, you're doing really good man is I want you to know that I'm really proud of you.
Shaun W.: I thought, I thought, Man, I think you bring
Shaun W.: Up to yesterday.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Shaun W.: I'm aware.
Gwenevere Abriel: Know there's a lot more than that, Sean, you get up, you go to a job, you have to face interactions with people that what you probably impulsively.
Gwenevere Abriel: Want to punch him and in your rent. You're inhibiting them you're actually working very hard.
Gwenevere Abriel: You probably want to be taking three to sub sub scripts. A day you're showing up and you're doing the one you're doing a lot. You're listening to me.
Gwenevere Abriel: I mean, I come at you with all kinds of stuff that you're like, oh, what is the use of this. Well, that's what the park looks like and you're trying to
Shaun W.: I get. I get scared that if I get also box a little bit back to everyone.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Shaun W.: I get scared about the
Shaun W.: And I don't want that because I don't want to go back to that my
Shaun W.: Slides, as long as I have that some alternative or more. Right. But I want to do. That's why you're like, Damn, I used to get three of you, and then also know I'm not one to do
Gwenevere Abriel: So shine.
Gwenevere Abriel: What do you think this parts for just step away back from it. Why doesn't display some bright heart health, just give you a sub and say, Have a nice day. Why do we do this part.
Shaun W.: You turn it off course.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, but with what
Shaun W.: You get off.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's a metaphor, get off drugs. You don't need me for that you could just start tapering. What is this for
Shaun W.: Hopeless.
Gwenevere Abriel: And don't pay maybe your PO just a pat on the back of a once in a while. Maybe that's all you need.
Shaun W.: Well, see, I could go. I could go to this other place where they give me my whole script for a whole month
Shaun W.: And and and as
Shaun W.: I can go to, but I don't. I just would rather do my calculations over the phone and get done because this helps me with my probation, parole to so this counters. My counseling. So I'd rather do this then.
Shaun W.: You'll get it for once, because I can get a whole script once a month.
Gwenevere Abriel: That is not
Gwenevere Abriel: How it helps you stay clean that helps you hit a hit a mark that helps you through probation. That's not clean. That's not a life of sobriety keep keep trying. What do you, what do you think counseling is for. Why have the whole field of psychology, why bother what's
Shaun W.: Still be changed your life right
Gwenevere Abriel: Are you going to change your life.
Shaun W.: You know, it's up to me.
Shaun W.: So just, you're just
Shaun W.: You're just here to help me, give me advice. Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: I take
Gwenevere Abriel: I take a lot of giving advice, actually.
Shaun W.: You give advice, a job.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. You tell me. You tell me when I've said, Here's my advice for you.
Shaun W.: It is easy to do these these breathing. You're giving me advice, all the time.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay advice and teach. Let's see how those are different.
Oh,
Gwenevere Abriel: I cannot tell you how to live your life and I promise you this. There is no way if I walked in your shoes, I would know exactly how to navigate your home.
Gwenevere Abriel: Better than you.
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't know that I could do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: You have adapted. I don't give advice. In fact, I am really careful about make sure these things you want to do.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or because you want to do them because you see the value all push right up to the edge and say,
Gwenevere Abriel: Have you thought about these other ideas and I'll try and teach some skills, not get up here and I'll do some fancy dancing and I'll sell you on some ideas. If you want to buy them try and play with them. Go for it.
Gwenevere Abriel: The difference between just a medication assisted treatment program with. Think of a methadone clinic where they just say hey how you doing, here you go to buy. Hey, how you doing, here you go to buy
Shaun W.: Always going to get on that too. And I thought, Man, I keep on that bad. I was like, oh,
Gwenevere Abriel: The reason I'm going to say it a few times. So there's a real clear understanding the reason that you picked up to begin with.
Gwenevere Abriel: Was because it was your solution to a problem. I'm going to say it again. You picked up along the way.
Gwenevere Abriel: Neither and if it's because
Gwenevere Abriel: It wasn't enough of a happy party or it was I'm anxious. I'm nervous. I'm sad and angry. It was a solution, a chemical solution.
Gwenevere Abriel: To a perceived problem.
Shaun W.: It was a quick fix.
Gwenevere Abriel: And now.
Gwenevere Abriel: You have a physiological dependence that is not a moral decision.
Gwenevere Abriel: The reason behavioral health. So in circle back to my original question, why are we here today.
Gwenevere Abriel: If you do not start to see other so loosens
Shaun W.: You'll continue
Gwenevere Abriel: You'll continue to think that escape is the only solution that numbing out is the only solution to I want to fucking kill this guy.
Gwenevere Abriel: When you only have I can't afford to have this thought and you cannot go to this list over here, the stuff I'm selling all these ideas.
Gwenevere Abriel: Of a way to to love the self, even when other people are criticizing a way to have value and hold on to self compassion when other people are saying you screwed up.
Gwenevere Abriel: The many things the obstacles that you're going to face when you do not see that there are other choices.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'd be afraid to that I relapse, because you don't have anything to replace it. You don't have a new repertoire of solution of problem solving skills.
Gwenevere Abriel: What do you think that people do on this planet.
Gwenevere Abriel: When they don't reach for a mood altering substance. What's the, what's the rest of the planet doing that hasn't developed a chemical dependence, what, how the heck did they survive trauma and abuse and horror. They do things. Those are the things I want to go over with you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Some of the things are behavioral and a behavior is a thought, believe it or not changing your thinking.
Gwenevere Abriel: Second, I noticed I have a perceived threat tight throat stomach turning shoulders up, hands up. The second I perceived threat my new behavior is going to be
Gwenevere Abriel: Wonder how this guy might be thinking something other than he wants to piss me off. That's the new thoughts. I was something that was said don't infer intent from outcome. I want to frickin kill them.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: What
Shaun W.: Are you going rouse degraded. I want to kill
Gwenevere Abriel: Whatever. So I'm here, I'm going. That's my first thought. I can't stop it. There it is.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, let me do that thing. What's the thing she said don't infer this guy's intent from how I feel. I feel rage.
Gwenevere Abriel: I feel anger. I feel threatened this little bit of resource. Oh, I found it. He wants to take my stuff my little money, my little car, my little privilege. My something he this guy's coming after it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Anyway, right. So I sit here with a little longer. And then I do that I do the trick. What's, uh, what's something else, he might be thinking, what's a positive intent, he might have
Gwenevere Abriel: This guy might just be a friendly guy. Or maybe he wants to sell me a good car. I don't know.
Gwenevere Abriel: She tried on what's a positive intent that this guy might be thinking
Shaun W.: I thought he came to my house to fix it. That means he he did, he did. That's what I thought, well, maybe he didn't notice because there's not that much because he came all the way out to my house for way. That's all. Though it
Shaun W.: Was like there should be nothing wrong I cards in the car.
Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: Wow.
Gwenevere Abriel: So use that Sean. This can be a reference point it'll happen again short order Maven happened today you use this history.
Gwenevere Abriel: I have been incorrect about my initial assumption. I was about this dealer this car. Maybe this guy at work. Also, if I give it a little bit of time a little bit of patience and I asked a couple clarifying questions.
Gwenevere Abriel: I might be wrong again about my initial assumption, doesn't mean you're bad or wrong, it just means
Gwenevere Abriel: I was before I could remember that. And again, I could check myself on my initial assumption I can check myself.
Gwenevere Abriel: How am I assigning negative intent to this guy before he even find out some facts. Maybe I'll get my facts. Let me get some more information.
Gwenevere Abriel: So what's up with that. Tell me about today. Well, how did you come to that conclusion. What's the feedback for and I sit with it a little longer before I say I want to kick this guy's ass.
Gwenevere Abriel: Your solutions are have been escape for drugs and alcohol and violence.
Gwenevere Abriel: There are other ways that guess what, then guess our day went like this. Hey, we're a little dull. There was no high drama. There's no police nobody got a bloody nose.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then you're like, oh my god, I was wrong. I look forward to when I'm wrong, like, sit down. My first assumption. I was so wrong because i was i completely missed the mark.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then we have a good day.
Shaun W.: Sometimes I think I'm a mind reader.
Gwenevere Abriel: We all do that that's natural we all try to, that's the brain trying to predict the future. Try and keep you safe. But that's only one part of the brain. This part of here. It's the one you've got to get on board the one that takes it takes the longest for your
Shaun W.: Frontal cortex.
Gwenevere Abriel: You got it.
Shaun W.: But guess what it takes the longest
Gwenevere Abriel: To get there. It takes the longest to get there. So you've got to create that that time that happens that initial impulse. That's why this
Gwenevere Abriel: You want a little technique that I think works, you're welcome to it, use it. Don't use it up to you.
Gwenevere Abriel: When someone says something to me and I noticed for me. I get. I get very anxious right here. I can feel these little pinches I do this, I have smile. I don't say a word and tell him to through it looks a little awkward bound care.
Gwenevere Abriel: That sounds really important. And I'd like to give out some time I'll think about that.
Gwenevere Abriel: So what I do is a buffer. I didn't say anything didn't promise to do anything didn't label it.
Gwenevere Abriel: DIDN'T SAY IT'S ALL OF IT DIDN'T SAY
Gwenevere Abriel: Fix it. I said, that's important. That sounds important to you because you brought it up. So obviously it's important you it's a little trick I have in my head.
Gwenevere Abriel: And all that time it took me to breathe means my body's more regulated and even saying this, I'm going to give that I'm going to give that feedback some thought and I mean you're bothering say it's probably pretty important to you. See how I'm doing that I'm stalling.
Gwenevere Abriel: It gives me time
Gwenevere Abriel: They get to feel heard, I get a second to collect myself emotionally
Gwenevere Abriel: You need time
Gwenevere Abriel: So just picture being at work, someone saying something to you. How do you think you could get time to onboard all the parts of your brain. What could you do
Shaun W.: Stop and cow.
Gwenevere Abriel: Something. Hey,
Shaun W.: Read
Yeah.
Shaun W.: I like the breathing, too.
Shaun W.: Me too, me too. I'm done.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let me ask you something, when someone is coming at you with a snide snarky insulting remark.
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you think it's smart to have a quick sharp cutting comment fast. Wait, wait for it, what do you end up actually doing coming back really fast with something, or is it sharp to
Gwenevere Abriel: I guess you got something to say. Okay. All right. I'll think about
Shaun W.: That now that I'm older. I can do that. But it's hard for me that's hard for a man to walk away.
Shaun W.: Really hard for them to walk away.
Gwenevere Abriel: This stuff I talked about earlier. I mean, I didn't get to share the article with you around perfectionism.
Gwenevere Abriel: See if I can
Shaun W.: Maybe say, Do you know anybody to write stories that writes books.
Shaun W.: Or finds a way to write my story.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, okay.
Shaun W.: There's a book out on it, but it's the
Shaun W.: It's, it's their story. I want my story.
Shaun W.: Of what happened to me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, there's a
Shaun W.: There's a book on the keys. My friend wrote it. He's a copter through the years. He's one that really
Shaun W.: Know,
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't know.
Shaun W.: Yeah, so I want to know if you know anybody that writes books or maybe some way in college will be there. That's bc like beginner right or something. I want to write or read a story, a real john Grisham
Shaun W.: Real I had the number to 48 hours 20 2060 minutes and all that and my lawyer typically do
Shaun W.: Not write them. He said, just let it go and move on with your mic.
Shaun W.: Is on. I said, I WANT TO SHOW YOU PEOPLE ALL CROOKED cops are I want everybody to know what it's called.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah yeah
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I don't think I'm going to be your, your in
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, let's
Gwenevere Abriel: Wait a minute, let's let's set up another appointment together, or are you still kind of
Gwenevere Abriel: feeling good about the bi weekly thing. So maybe may 12 at nine.
Shaun W.: o'clock at night.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's a Tuesday. Two weeks from now. I think that's two weeks.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, that feels right.
Gwenevere Abriel: So Sean
Gwenevere Abriel: Your challenge, maybe in the split second after you perceived threat which means someone says something rude, I'm minimizing route, but you know what I'm talking about.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Your natural inclination
Gwenevere Abriel: Is going to be to meet that hostility with hostility, it will happen instantaneous
Gwenevere Abriel: But just know that incrementally. The sooner you catch it. The quickest way is the body. Your body is going to register that threat before you think of a word or phrase a comment.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's going to get activated, if you can catch it in the body. You're going to feel so much more empowered because our body perceives threat before it's going to catch a word. Okay. You're going to feel it somewhere in in a stomach turning tight chest, shoulders up
Gwenevere Abriel: This heart pounding short breath. I don't know where it is for you. But if you can catch it there. Then take the breath.
Gwenevere Abriel: Alright man, that's cool.
Gwenevere Abriel: Thing about what you just server that's right and then by the time by the time you've done caught it in your body, you did your breath. You did your accounting
Gwenevere Abriel: Then you're like why do I even want to comment to this full and then you probably not even going to bother.
Gwenevere Abriel: Then, so what, sometimes you will if it's, if it's a mother. If it's someone, you actually have an investment in a relationship, then you're going to hang in longer and that will give you the time to go.
Gwenevere Abriel: Tell me more about what you're talking about. I don't want to make any assumptions. Right. We can even say it. I don't want
Gwenevere Abriel: To make any assumptions about it, trying to work on, you know, kind of slowing down and getting my facts straight before I give a response. So tell me more about what you just said.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's another approach.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, but you'd make it your style, not the way I talk, obviously.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, I'll see
Shaun W.: You soon. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: You too. Bye bye.